doc/README.yaml.md, before:


# README for Open-CE Environment Files

- [README for Open-CE Environment Files](#readme-for-open-ce-environment-files)
  - [Open-CE Environment File](#open-ce-environment-file)
    - [packages and feedstock](#packages-and-feedstock)
      - [git_tag](#git_tag)
      - [recipe_path](#recipe_path)
      - [runtime_package](#runtime_package)
      - [patches](#patches)
      - [channels(feedstock)](#channelsfeedstock)
      - [recipes](#recipes)
    - [builder_version](#builder_version)
    - [imported_envs](#imported_envs)
    - [channels](#channels)
    - [git_tag_for_env](#git_tag_for_env)
    - [external_dependencies](#external_dependencies)

This README documents the Open-CE Environment YAML files used by the build scripts
[open-ce build env](README.open_ce_build.md#open-ce-build-env-sub-command)
and [open-ce build feedstock](README.open_ce_build.md#open-ce-build-feedstock-sub-command).
Please refer to the respective README files for each of these two scripts.

Most likely you will want to simply use the Open-CE environment files provided within the
open-ce repository as they are. These files have already been customized and
verified to work. However, if you want to debug or do your own customizations,
you can edit them or create your own environment files for use by these scripts. If you
do this, you will likely want to start by copying one of the existing files and
making local edits as desired.

## Open-CE Environment File

The `open-ce build env` command uses what we call an Open-CE environment file.
In this context, an "environment" is a fully-built core package along with all
of its dependencies, each of which is found in a separate "feedstock" repository
within the broader open-ce project.
Default environment files are provided for each of several environments in the open-ce
repository, within [https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/envs](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/tree/main/envs)
These files are named for their package environments, e.g.
[tensorflow-env.yaml](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/blob/main/envs/tensorflow-env.yaml)
or [pytorch-env.yaml](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/blob/main/envs/pytorch-env.yaml),
among others. You can review these files as examples.

There are a number of keywords that can be used in the environment files, each one
serving a different purpose. All are used to define key-value pairs as used in a
YAML file format. The keywords recognized for Open-CE environments include the
following:

```yaml
packages:              # The environment package name
  - feedstock:         # Defines each feedstock comprising the environment
    channels:          # Defines a channel location for obtaining dependencies
    git_tag:           # Defines a specific git tag to use for this feedstock
    recipe_path:       # Specifies the path to the recipe within this feedstock
    recipes:           # Sets name and path of recipe location(s)
    patches:           # Specifies list of patches to be applied to this feedstock
    runtime_package:   # Specifies if the package is needed at runtime for the main frameworks to install
builder_version:       # Specifies the version of builder tools this file is compatible with.
imported_envs:         # Used to import content of one env file into another
channels:              # Defines a channel location for obtaining dependencies
git_tag_for_env:       # Specify a git tag to use across all packages in environment
external_dependencies: # Specify a list of external dependencies  for compatibility validation
```

Most of these are optional. At a minimum, the environment files will define one
or more feedstocks under the `packages` stanza. Other keyword elements are used
only infrequently, typically to override defaults.

### packages and feedstock

In the most common basic case, each environment file has a `packages` stanza
which lists a number of feedstock repositories that are needed to build as
requisites. Each feedstock dependency is listed on a separate line in the stanza.
For example, in [xgboost-env.yaml](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/blob/main/envs/xgboost-env.yaml):

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock : nccl              #[build_type == 'cuda']
  - feedstock : xgboost
```

Here you see two feedstocks listed; these correspond to the open-ce repository
tree for [nccl-feedstock](https://github.com/open-ce/nccl-feedstock) and
[xgboost-feedstock](https://github.com/open-ce/xgboost-feedstock) respectively.
Here, notice the `cuda` designation on the nccl feedstock line. This will only
be built if the `build_type` is set to `cuda` when executing the `open-ce build env`
script, so it is considered an optional dependency that you may want to include
if your runtime environment has CUDA available.

The other keywords that optionally can be used as part of the `packages` stanza
include `git_tag`, `recipe_path`, `patches`, `channels`, `runtime_package` and
`recipes`.

#### git_tag

By default, the git tag will be the current (i.e. `main`) branch of the specified
source tree, such that you don't need to include this keyword unless you want to explicitly
override it to fetch a different version. To do this, you will simply specify the version
value or the hexadecimal git tag value that you want to obtain during the build.

An example might look something like this:

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock: dummy_example
    git_tag: v1.0.0
```

This can be useful if there is a new default version, but you want to
specifically build an older tagged version.

#### recipe_path

By default, the recipe_path will be `recipe`. This field specifies the path within the
feedstock containing the conda recipe.

An example might look something like this:

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock: dummy_example
    recipe_path: my_recipe_path
```

#### runtime_package

This field is used to specify if the feedstock is needed at the runtime for the main
frameworks like Tensorflow or Pytorch to install and work. If this is set to `False`,
this package won't be included in the conda environment file which is generated by `open-ce build env`.
If this is not specified, by default the package is considered as a runtime package.
An example might look something like this:

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock: dummy_example
    runtime_package: False
```

#### patches

This field specifies the list of patches that are to be applied to the feedstock.
Patches to be applied are expected to be present in `feedstock-patches` directory
within `open-ce` repository. Ideal way is to have the patches placed in the directory named
as the feedstock, within `feedstock-patches` directory.
An example might look something like this:

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock : https://github.com/conda-forge/cmake-feedstock
    git_tag : 26e3ecb4156c14d90a66fd1433d52a1d7e27946d
    patches :
      - ../feedstock-patches/cmake/0001-Fix-test.patch
```

One can also specify the full path of the patch file if it is not part of open-ce repo.

This might be useful if some feedstock is to be built from non-open-CE repo and it needs some
changes to be built in Open-CE build environment or specific to the ppc64le architecture.

#### channels(feedstock)

For `channels`, if you need to add a package dependency that is not found within
open-ce but which is available at some other external delivery channel, you can
specify the URL to the desired channel as seen below (replacing the URL with
whatever is appropriate for your build):

```yaml
packages:
  channels:
    - https://anaconda.org/anaconda
```

While this example shows usage specific to one `packages` stanza, the `channels`
keyword can also be defined on its own for use throughout the environment file
(see below).

#### recipes

Finally, a package might define more than one recipe, particularly if it will
build into more than one variant. One example of this is tensorflow, which
can build both a default GPU and CPU version, handled by using multiple
recipes. While you could specify this as part of the `packages` stanza, you
can find the more typical usage within Open-CE in which the respective
package feedstock has its own `config/build-config.yaml` file that defines
the individual recipes. For example, the
[tensorflow-feedstock](https://github.com/open-ce/tensorflow-feedstock)
`config/build_config.yaml` file defines recipes in this way:

```yaml
recipes:
  - name : tensorflow-select
    path : select_recipe

  - name : tensorflow-base
    path : recipe

  - name : tensorflow-meta
    path : meta_recipe
```

If you look in the
[tensorflow-feedstock](https://github.com/open-ce/tensorflow-feedstock) tree,
you will see that each of these `path` specifiers has a directory name that is
present in the feedstock repo, and within each path is a `meta.yaml` file which
represents the recipe for each separate package.

### builder_version

This keyword specifies the versions of `open-ce-builder` tool this environment file is
compatible with. This can be used to ensure that there is no schema mismatch
or incompatibilities. The value can be any valid conda MatchSpec version string.

```yaml
builder_version: ">=1.0,<3.0"
```

### imported_envs

Another stanza type that you might see in some environment files is
`imported_envs`. An example found in
[horovod-env.yaml](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/blob/main/envs/horovod-env.yaml)
looks like:

```yaml
imported_envs:
  - pytorch-env.yaml
  - tensorflow-env.yaml
```

This is straightforward; it effectively creates a nested environment file by simply
importing the contents of the listed environment files. So if you are building the
horovod environment, you will get a build of both pytorch and tensorflow as well
because of the specified imported environments listed in this section.

Using URLs for `imported_envs` is also supported. For example, the following imports
a local PyTorch env, and a TensorFlow env pulled directly from GitHub.

```yaml
imported_envs:
  - pytorch-env.yaml
  - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-ce/open-ce/main/envs/tensorflow-env.yaml
```

### channels

As mentioned earlier, the `channels` specifier can also be used as a universal keyword
within an environment file; in fact, this is probably the more common usage.
This means that the any external dependencies will be searched in the specified
URL channel, for any of the packages in the build. You would only need to do this if
a package dependency is not found as part of open-ce but which is available
at some other external delivery channel. You can specify the URL to the desired
channel as seen below, placing this at the top of the file (again, replacing this
sample URL with the one you want to use):

```yaml
channels:
  - https://public.dhe.ibm.com/ibmdl/export/pub/software/server/ibm-ai/conda/
```

### git_tag_for_env

The keyword `git_tag_for_env` can also be used to set a universal key-value definition
for an environment file. This is much like the `git_tag` described above for an
individual package stanza, but in this case it would be in effect for the whole
environment (although it can be overridden by an individual package `git_tag`).
You would likely not typically use this, unless you are doing custom builds based
off of a tagged version of open-ce which is not the current default one. For
example, if you wanted to stay doing custom build variants based on the very first
open-ce release tag, you could achieve this by defining:

```yaml
git_tag_for_env: open-ce-v1.0.0
```

### external_dependencies

In the environment file, if you want to specify a dependency package without actually
building it during `open-ce build env` execution, you can indicate the dependency by using
the `external_dependencies` keyword. For example, if your environment depends on
tensorflow but you don't want to build it locally, you can add a stanza like this:

```yaml
external_dependencies:
  - tensorflow
```

The stanza types above are the only elements that are used by the open-ce environment
[open-ce build env](README.open_ce_build.md#open-ce-build-env-sub-command) builds. However, as each feedstock in the list is
built, other file information is used from the individual configuration files of each
respective feedstock repository, normally found as a recipe in the `recipe/meta.yaml`
within each feedstock.

Commit message:

Allow multiple conda build configs (#35)
* Allow multiple conda_build_config arguments

* Add conda_build_configs to schema

* Pass conda_build_configs to build_feedstock

doc/README.yaml.md, after:


# README for Open-CE Environment Files

- [README for Open-CE Environment Files](#readme-for-open-ce-environment-files)
  - [Open-CE Environment File](#open-ce-environment-file)
    - [packages and feedstock](#packages-and-feedstock)
      - [git_tag](#git_tag)
      - [recipe_path](#recipe_path)
      - [runtime_package](#runtime_package)
      - [patches](#patches)
      - [channels(feedstock)](#channelsfeedstock)
      - [recipes](#recipes)
    - [builder_version](#builder_version)
    - [imported_envs](#imported_envs)
    - [channels](#channels)
    - [conda_build_configs](#conda_build_configs)
    - [git_tag_for_env](#git_tag_for_env)
    - [external_dependencies](#external_dependencies)

This README documents the Open-CE Environment YAML files used by the build scripts
[open-ce build env](README.open_ce_build.md#open-ce-build-env-sub-command)
and [open-ce build feedstock](README.open_ce_build.md#open-ce-build-feedstock-sub-command).
Please refer to the respective README files for each of these two scripts.

Most likely you will want to simply use the Open-CE environment files provided within the
open-ce repository as they are. These files have already been customized and
verified to work. However, if you want to debug or do your own customizations,
you can edit them or create your own environment files for use by these scripts. If you
do this, you will likely want to start by copying one of the existing files and
making local edits as desired.

## Open-CE Environment File

The `open-ce build env` command uses what we call an Open-CE environment file.
In this context, an "environment" is a fully-built core package along with all
of its dependencies, each of which is found in a separate "feedstock" repository
within the broader open-ce project.
Default environment files are provided for each of several environments in the open-ce
repository, within [https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/envs](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/tree/main/envs)
These files are named for their package environments, e.g.
[tensorflow-env.yaml](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/blob/main/envs/tensorflow-env.yaml)
or [pytorch-env.yaml](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/blob/main/envs/pytorch-env.yaml),
among others. You can review these files as examples.

There are a number of keywords that can be used in the environment files, each one
serving a different purpose. All are used to define key-value pairs as used in a
YAML file format. The keywords recognized for Open-CE environments include the
following:

```yaml
packages:              # The environment package name
  - feedstock:         # Defines each feedstock comprising the environment
    channels:          # Defines a channel location for obtaining dependencies
    git_tag:           # Defines a specific git tag to use for this feedstock
    recipe_path:       # Specifies the path to the recipe within this feedstock
    recipes:           # Sets name and path of recipe location(s)
    patches:           # Specifies list of patches to be applied to this feedstock
    runtime_package:   # Specifies if the package is needed at runtime for the main frameworks to install
builder_version:       # Specifies the version of builder tools this file is compatible with.
imported_envs:         # Used to import content of one env file into another
channels:              # Defines a channel location for obtaining dependencies
conda_build_configs:   # Specifies paths of conda_build_config files needed to build the environment
git_tag_for_env:       # Specify a git tag to use across all packages in environment
external_dependencies: # Specify a list of external dependencies  for compatibility validation
```

Most of these are optional. At a minimum, the environment files will define one
or more feedstocks under the `packages` stanza. Other keyword elements are used
only infrequently, typically to override defaults.

### packages and feedstock

In the most common basic case, each environment file has a `packages` stanza
which lists a number of feedstock repositories that are needed to build as
requisites. Each feedstock dependency is listed on a separate line in the stanza.
For example, in [xgboost-env.yaml](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/blob/main/envs/xgboost-env.yaml):

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock : nccl              #[build_type == 'cuda']
  - feedstock : xgboost
```

Here you see two feedstocks listed; these correspond to the open-ce repository
tree for [nccl-feedstock](https://github.com/open-ce/nccl-feedstock) and
[xgboost-feedstock](https://github.com/open-ce/xgboost-feedstock) respectively.
Here, notice the `cuda` designation on the nccl feedstock line. This will only
be built if the `build_type` is set to `cuda` when executing the `open-ce build env`
script, so it is considered an optional dependency that you may want to include
if your runtime environment has CUDA available.

The other keywords that optionally can be used as part of the `packages` stanza
include `git_tag`, `recipe_path`, `patches`, `channels`, `runtime_package` and
`recipes`.

#### git_tag

By default, the git tag will be the current (i.e. `main`) branch of the specified
source tree, such that you don't need to include this keyword unless you want to explicitly
override it to fetch a different version. To do this, you will simply specify the version
value or the hexadecimal git tag value that you want to obtain during the build.

An example might look something like this:

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock: dummy_example
    git_tag: v1.0.0
```

This can be useful if there is a new default version, but you want to
specifically build an older tagged version.

#### recipe_path

By default, the recipe_path will be `recipe`. This field specifies the path within the
feedstock containing the conda recipe.

An example might look something like this:

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock: dummy_example
    recipe_path: my_recipe_path
```

#### runtime_package

This field is used to specify if the feedstock is needed at the runtime for the main
frameworks like Tensorflow or Pytorch to install and work. If this is set to `False`,
this package won't be included in the conda environment file which is generated by `open-ce build env`.
If this is not specified, by default the package is considered as a runtime package.
An example might look something like this:

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock: dummy_example
    runtime_package: False
```

#### patches

This field specifies the list of patches that are to be applied to the feedstock.
Patches to be applied are expected to be present in `feedstock-patches` directory
within `open-ce` repository. Ideal way is to have the patches placed in the directory named
as the feedstock, within `feedstock-patches` directory.
An example might look something like this:

```yaml
packages:
  - feedstock : https://github.com/conda-forge/cmake-feedstock
    git_tag : 26e3ecb4156c14d90a66fd1433d52a1d7e27946d
    patches :
      - ../feedstock-patches/cmake/0001-Fix-test.patch
```

One can also specify the full path of the patch file if it is not part of open-ce repo.

This might be useful if some feedstock is to be built from non-open-CE repo and it needs some
changes to be built in Open-CE build environment or specific to the ppc64le architecture.

#### channels(feedstock)

For `channels`, if you need to add a package dependency that is not found within
open-ce but which is available at some other external delivery channel, you can
specify the URL to the desired channel as seen below (replacing the URL with
whatever is appropriate for your build):

```yaml
packages:
  channels:
    - https://anaconda.org/anaconda
```

While this example shows usage specific to one `packages` stanza, the `channels`
keyword can also be defined on its own for use throughout the environment file
(see below).

#### recipes

Finally, a package might define more than one recipe, particularly if it will
build into more than one variant. One example of this is tensorflow, which
can build both a default GPU and CPU version, handled by using multiple
recipes. While you could specify this as part of the `packages` stanza, you
can find the more typical usage within Open-CE in which the respective
package feedstock has its own `config/build-config.yaml` file that defines
the individual recipes. For example, the
[tensorflow-feedstock](https://github.com/open-ce/tensorflow-feedstock)
`config/build_config.yaml` file defines recipes in this way:

```yaml
recipes:
  - name : tensorflow-select
    path : select_recipe

  - name : tensorflow-base
    path : recipe

  - name : tensorflow-meta
    path : meta_recipe
```

If you look in the
[tensorflow-feedstock](https://github.com/open-ce/tensorflow-feedstock) tree,
you will see that each of these `path` specifiers has a directory name that is
present in the feedstock repo, and within each path is a `meta.yaml` file which
represents the recipe for each separate package.

### builder_version

This keyword specifies the versions of `open-ce-builder` tool this environment file is
compatible with. This can be used to ensure that there is no schema mismatch
or incompatibilities. The value can be any valid conda MatchSpec version string.

```yaml
builder_version: ">=1.0,<3.0"
```

### imported_envs

Another stanza type that you might see in some environment files is
`imported_envs`. An example found in
[horovod-env.yaml](https://github.com/open-ce/open-ce/blob/main/envs/horovod-env.yaml)
looks like:

```yaml
imported_envs:
  - pytorch-env.yaml
  - tensorflow-env.yaml
```

This is straightforward; it effectively creates a nested environment file by simply
importing the contents of the listed environment files. So if you are building the
horovod environment, you will get a build of both pytorch and tensorflow as well
because of the specified imported environments listed in this section.

Using URLs for `imported_envs` is also supported. For example, the following imports
a local PyTorch env, and a TensorFlow env pulled directly from GitHub.

```yaml
imported_envs:
  - pytorch-env.yaml
  - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-ce/open-ce/main/envs/tensorflow-env.yaml
```

### channels

As mentioned earlier, the `channels` specifier can also be used as a universal keyword
within an environment file; in fact, this is probably the more common usage.
This means that the any external dependencies will be searched in the specified
URL channel, for any of the packages in the build. You would only need to do this if
a package dependency is not found as part of open-ce but which is available
at some other external delivery channel. You can specify the URL to the desired
channel as seen below, placing this at the top of the file (again, replacing this
sample URL with the one you want to use):

```yaml
channels:
  - https://public.dhe.ibm.com/ibmdl/export/pub/software/server/ibm-ai/conda/
```

### conda_build_configs

The `conda_build_configs` specifier lists all of the conda_build_config files that will
be used to build the environment. These files will be passed to `conda-build` after the
values provided by the `--conda_build_configs` argument, as well as after the default
locations for conda_build_config files. This will give conda_build_config files
specified within an Open-CE file higher priority than those passed in through arguments
and through default locations.

```yaml
conda_build_configs:
  - my_conda_build_config.yaml
```

### git_tag_for_env

The keyword `git_tag_for_env` can also be used to set a universal key-value definition
for an environment file. This is much like the `git_tag` described above for an
individual package stanza, but in this case it would be in effect for the whole
environment (although it can be overridden by an individual package `git_tag`).
You would likely not typically use this, unless you are doing custom builds based
off of a tagged version of open-ce which is not the current default one. For
example, if you wanted to stay doing custom build variants based on the very first
open-ce release tag, you could achieve this by defining:

```yaml
git_tag_for_env: open-ce-v1.0.0
```

### external_dependencies

In the environment file, if you want to specify a dependency package without actually
building it during `open-ce build env` execution, you can indicate the dependency by using
the `external_dependencies` keyword. For example, if your environment depends on
tensorflow but you don't want to build it locally, you can add a stanza like this:

```yaml
external_dependencies:
  - tensorflow
```

The stanza types above are the only elements that are used by the open-ce environment
[open-ce build env](README.open_ce_build.md#open-ce-build-env-sub-command) builds. However, as each feedstock in the list is
built, other file information is used from the individual configuration files of each
respective feedstock repository, normally found as a recipe in the `recipe/meta.yaml`
within each feedstock.
